What are risks to trying to automate recovery?
The answer is, there is some risk to
false positive alerts causing action when none is required.
This can be mitigated by limiting automation
to only actions without large negative side effects.
For example, adding more disk space,
there is some cost but no real harm.
Runaway automation is another risk.
Revisiting our disk space example,
if the automation were to run a way and keep adding disc space in a loop,
this could become problematic,
or at least very expensive.
Putting guardrails in place is a good practice to limit this.
You could write automation that would have an additional check,
that is not trying to increase your disk space to greater than five terabytes.
Too much free time is almost never a problem.
Rather, automating oneself out of some current responsibilities allows one to take
on other more strategic responsibilities and add even more value to the organization.
Spending less time taking care of routine maintenance
allows for more time to be spent on preventing larger issues.